Web Sites are Good For Radiant Personalities?

Eyes are precious if you see a lot of sites. The long term symptom of computing is a big brain and why myopia? My eyes have been made fuzzier by the web, I would read the sites that say it's not bad for eyewear, but my optician says they just don't know. My opthomatrist says to load softwear that reduces eyestrain. And you can now get voice recognition softwear from sites like Amazon used for 1 cent. Since I can feel how this influences my eyes, moving back from the glare makes it alright since it may reduce the glare. It's hardly natural to look at a flickering fire for ages (and a fire that doesn't move may be worse). So what I've learned is, even if a lot of sites say something is safe, consider if it was much found in our natural state in the wild for millions of years, if they typed a lot! and so on. The good news is the other side of this coin, if you have say conjunctivitis and there is supposedly no aid for you by science, most important of all is NEVER STOP SEEKING NEVER STOP YOUR SEARCH! Science of a hundred years ago was the best they could achieve, and with a complex machine like the body, there are ways like with OTC herbs that science booed for a thousand years, they are finding were good for more than than Noninstant Pot of Soup! Even some risk of eye damage or making this worse if you already have myopia may be worth relaxing your eyes. In ancient ages myopia was unknown. Myopia started with squinting at books in the 1500's with myopia, Thank you Vanna for The Wheel! There are just muscles to stretch your lense and no muscles in your eye socket to shorten your eye. This may be why when you read a monitor in the dark some say it doesn't hurt your eye, you're not squinting because what you can see is in relative contrast. I find that it makes my eyes feel good to turn on the light even so. One aid for myopia risk is to look away from the tube when your eyes are bit weary, this may be better than staring at the computer. An egg timer you can get for just a few bucks will enable you to take regular breathers, and this is also good for an exercise timer. Generally timers built in your computer or even motion sensors that sense when your eyes are tired and gives you a rest by automatically reducing glare on the monitor may be eye salvation. And of course they say the computer would adapt to the conditions so your eyes are most used most optimally such as when you're more tired but have to work. They say too the exercises may be humerous or other, if the computer user inputs this in. We haven't evolved with computers. When I want to rest my eyes, to hide my big tube TV I hide it inside the remote, due to science my remote is Television Sized and with its electron beam I may have found what powers finmobiles with a big pair of eyewear on the headlights! If this may be so by the TV and computers combined here's a good eye exercise -without itty weights. While looking at the computer, blink while you move your head side to side, and up and down, this helps dry eyes and you can do this while you read. I do slow eye stretches while reading. For longer term some have proposed computer timers that sense all the light thinking both in and outside the box and computes the overall strain and then finds its computerized exercises most optimal and then puts these exercises on the tube (they may be humerous or ect if the computer user inputs this in). Watching a computer at zoom range is more unevolved, watching a TV from millions of miles away if you are a star on Star Treck would be much power, sort of like the largest meteor shower in all of history, over a city in Poland in the late 1800's of 200,000 meteors. If this may be so with both TV and computers combined, here's a good eye exercise-without lifting big weights either! Look away from the machine once or twice in a while (it really makes sore eyes feel a sigh if you've read a lot) via slow eye stretches. An improved exercise of this sort I think is rolling your eyes from side to side or up and down while you blink, this may be more pleasure because you can close your eyes while you blink without moving your head so you won't stop your hush hush if you're in college. Good exercises are also found at http://www.ranprieur.com/me/eyes.html . Another good eye saver is when doing a lot of typing, just look down at your hands instead of the tube, a typer marm will slap me for this, Good for Her! This may also be done while rolling your eyes with your eyes closed, and this aids your other senses, (If it's May you'll hear the flowers in boom.) If you have a computer like this you may spend 3500 months of your life elapsed at rest while you boot up. I find "real" paper and read this while I wait. This lets my computer compute between the bootup commands so sooths the machine and her softwear. Another method of aiding computer vision is where they make what you see on the tube look more real by such as shading. When the overall power of the sight is seen, it has billions of pixels, so watching a fuzzy soap goddess means she is smooth and in clean suds. They may eventually have special lenses for painters that exercise their vision. Most geniuses are myopic and left handed, in sports the geniuses are the ones who put spin on zoom lenses who watch. They may be myopic geniuses because they read more. Computers cause good dreams, Genuises can even sleep well by using computers to cause trances, I wonder if there are any mesmerism sites, "You are getting Sleepy! Sleepy! Type in this URL!". A method of helping computer rest is with a sort of vellum that has small spheres, one per pixel of the type (one side black and the other white of the sphere) between two sets of paper and electric charge on each side of the paper and the dot and the whole paper can be reset just by changing the charge. This is known as e-paper.They say they've invented a much higher resolution type of this for computer monitors. For all pixels, instead of spheres, three atoms or other compounds are used, each of which resets a red blue or yellow power band. A usual beam of electrons resets each pixel to the frequency of the image and once the pixel is reset to a given baud, this is stored passively in much the same way usual objects store thier information about light and geometry in the outer layers of the surface. Instead of the pixel reradiating out the light, the pixel passively reflects off the light from outside sources like usual light. This would stop eyestrain because of this being more natural like we would see in evolution. This was invented when it was observed that for computers and probably tubes in general the information is the same much of the hour of a show, most of my typing is a word, and when I've typed it it stays mostly this word! I've found it! -mononumerology! So the beam would set the pixels just where the page changes. Power would be saved a lot like epaper where once the sphere is set power is saved between usage. The power saved would mean reduced lead shielding which may become a huge environmental problem. The much higher resolution of atom width of pixels and reduced lead shielding are a boost for when you eat out pizza! I eat out a lot-of resturants! I found out the other day my glasses were making me farsighted, just not near the opthamologist! My mother in Europe for a visit with us shipped me a illustration of a 25 foot wide wooden sculpture illustrating scenes from the life of Jesus. Someone in the old world had spent all his life on this brillliant vision, mechanized with wheels and a lot of the scenes move such as birth and good shepherd and carrying the cross with wooden houses and musicians who play, old time wheels that look like flowers, it may be by steam power. I couldn't see a winch, she was fuzzy up close so I took off my zooms so I saw much. My sister was thinking of laser eye surgery but she opted out. Since I have proof lenses can make you so you can't see where you were able before, I think she was right about opting out of laser surgery, what to replace this with? They may have found a way to save eyes from myopia without lenses or lasers (they say one good exercise to improve your vision is to press against your closed eyes with the palm of your hands, others say no) a possible way of solving myopia may actually be a band worn around the eyes and head that has rings that go and press on the eyes to shorten them. These loops would be outside the eyelid or lense and essentially fit on the outside whites of your eyes. I don't know if this is safe for lenses, it may prove safe for most eyes without fluid pressure in the eyes (they are being squeezed all the time with the farsighted).This would be contacts without zooms. Other inventors I think say the time spent wearing this would be reduced if the bands had applied pressure and vibration from motors, to slow the eye hours, or CBS would! If there were contact lenses of a type that could move the eye while asleep with the bands this would maybe be done with the eyes closed. This may be a method of actually influencing the "visions" of dreams, while you see your goddess from Miami with AirPeru with you. Of course dreams are from within but this may be a major influence.

The state of Mo I think is disputing with a man who thinks a greyhound should be non designated as a dog. The greyhound, when interviewed said, "No problem, I'm a Senior Editor and the journalist she's a Volvo, her fragrance is Goddess in Shell Oil!"

Police pulled over a man in North Dakota in 2005 for drunk driving, they suspected him because his licence plate said "TIPSY". After he drove out of the saloon, he said he thought he would not be arrested. Even with his plate level, the Lexus he drove around on two wheels!

Caution, This site is just about the paranormal-you know twice as usual! I'm Supernormal, I just munch the usual amount!

I read this science blurb "Rare Dinosaur Unearthed". Same old story. They all are!

If you see a Mazda driving up the road towing a nozzle and hose you may know it's a woman-if it's a man he would be towing the Shell station!


THEORY OF HEALTH

..Seeking health saavy, and a month of el slosho in the mediterranean on the beach all year? You don't have to go far to be healthy if you know when in history to search. By thinking about evolution we may find major ways of better living. A way to know generally for common sense and more what's most conducive to health often may be by finding out what was going on we evolved with for millions of years (especially what's complex because life is change) that gives us more power than we lose. By finding what was going on in prehistoric times ways of finding more health in our usual life may be found, and by finding what's most healthy now in physiology, we find a more healthy respect for the prehistoric world that 999 of a thousand of us lived in. Most people weren't in pain; disease was almost absent in the wild. We were not too hot or cold; we were in the rain forests, fire wasn't invented till much later. This is not the same as saying what we evolved with that doesn't harm us is always healthy. A rock or a mountain makes a beautious lawn, but so are the plains for the wealthy! While a lion lives around flowers most won't eat a lot of bread. (I won't eat bread I see in stores. The iron's not real salt, the salt is foam monomers. I recommend 12 grain cereal, 12 grain cereal is just about 3 for 2 lbs. It was listed in Food Finds, I found using a real Visa.) So just what was near us in ages of yore is not of import compared what we got more power out of, even if we got the power just by standard patterns like the lion who eats just a bit of bread. If we got more advantage out of a food or action in our usual life in evolution, this theory of health predicts it's more probable it's good for us. This is why we like cold water more in summer and often in winter more than hot. In the wild hot water would have had more bacilli that would have hurt us. We got more power and survival advantage from cool water in the wild. In ancient times they were all drinking wine because the still was uninvented and boiling water to make the wine killed the harmful compounds in the jugs. The pilgrims landed at Plymouth because they were out of beer and with no water to booze on they stopped and built a beer brewery. Tut's tomb has a 5 pack of beer (Gold Milwaulkee). If they had known to boil water instead of beer, they would have saved a (staggered) step and the roads would have been much more level by 100 BC. 15 minutes of heavy exercise plus rest plus 15 minutes more exercise they now find more healthy than all of a half hour, and more comfortable. So since we're here and not gone it paints a picture of what life was like for us; We would have to run to or away from wild animals, but only about once in two days (all the rest was comfortable in the cozy heat and by the ocean or river for shade and fish). Most would find more than this uncommodious because in the wild this was usually all it would take to catch prey or outrun predators or competitors. Running was good for power too but just in moderation. So this theory says because we coevolved, most of our predators and competitors would only have been willing or able to run for just 15 minutes to catch us. The competitors were competing for the same resources, and just as Darwin said, few animals would hunt for sport; the same energy some would use to attack others would be used to help more than hurt. Helping would have been of value more perhaps or evolution wouldn't have gone uphill over millions of years. There was no overall escalation in the evolution (except perhaps slowly over millions of years) because no large outside source of power than evolution would allow in our usual Ogg life was found. So this is what the 15 minute level of aerobics is about.
For those born in March, chances of some illness like mental illness is much higher, this would be because without fire in the tropics for millions of years there was heat year round so a warm enviroment for moms to be is most blessed by.
.
..They did research about three types of person, women weightlifting pros, women who were sometime exercisers all their life, and aerobic walkers like saleswomen. The ones with the best cardiovascular health by far were the walkers. This would fit in with the theory of health because in the wild we were better off not having our hands tied up throwing heavy stones or logs, if they were heavy we couldn't aim them well in defence. If we lifted large wood or boulders with our hands in use we wouldn't have gotten much use out of it. This is what would have been found in ages past that was of more power we would use. Walking would be of more value than weightlifting because we would vote with our feet in the wild, "Time to run, See you when the bear chases us here again in a while!" Throwing small stones since they would be of use to defend would be the most optimum way to win and more aerobic. The American indians had no war before about 1000 AD. This may mean there may have been no war in the wild. The overcrowding may have caused the start of this (there may be possible solutions, for more about this please click here) and overcrowding is uncommon so it may have been more like Andy an Aunt Bee than The Price is Right in 1 million BC. In this theory professional level heavy weight lifting is actually without as much merit as more moderate exercise, while the idea of what's natural about diet or exercise is highly adaptable. The eskimos lived without much veggie cheeze in the unfrozen pizza they ate for thousands of years, and it's thought by the pros to be doubtful that exercise can harm a healthy person. They say it's possible a person can survive on just potatoes and milk, it's possible, but where would we find a convenience store that sold just mozerella chips? You may say, if we were all most willing or able just to run 15 minutes at a jog what would stop others who would try to outrun us and cheat? Obviously if there was too much cheating in the wild, we wouldn't be here because most cheating is a sign of illness, and our ancestors would have perished. So the question of why there was always enough to keep our evolution going for millions of years may be like asking why it was always so it wasn't too hot or cold. The answer is that sometimes it was, but if it was most of the time we wouldn't be here. They have found wrong exercise by a toxic compound damages muscle. If your muscles hurt this is a sign of damage and the pros council against too much exercise.
.
Even too much water is bad for you, so a limit always has to be somewhere or we would blast off for orbit if our trampoline has web power. For moderate fans of country music like me, the theory of health explains why winding down instead of just light exercise stretches, with short bursts of power like heavy leg lifts may be of more value, one way I've read it's optimal, or more optimal than one!
.
This would be like in sleep, another sort of bio computer where instead of a smooth dropoff you have dream cycles. In the wild exercise and sleep wouldn't have always gradually wound down. Solids and smooth flow both are found all around us. Like dreams it may be more efficient in the bursts at the end of sleep (not perhaps the start since, like dreams the most activity is later in the sleep, ect.). While experts recommend lifting heavy weights to maintain strength, this is determined by the weight, not the number of times or how long the weight is held. Like in the bursts of sleep, I lift a moderately heavy load like a sofa or a pack and maintain my power. I think not lifting for hours, or just two minutes per two days is what was the usual for in our evolution. See this link. We would lift some weight in the wild, if we lifted so much we were out of power all the time, we would be so exausted we wouldn't have survived. It's the low level exercisers who are the heros. I think winning 100,000 for a round of aerobics is more than worth a rest!
.
In the Theory of Health microwave ovens would be safe. Although they use magnetic fields more than electric, Einstein said either motion of a wire or a magnet produce the same relative motion of his theory of relativity. In the tropics for millions of years both electric and magnetic heat were all around. While the theory of health would say they are mostly safe, electric and magnetic fields are not quite the same (heat flows more from Miami to Christmas, send me a boat of oranges to Miami!) so this theory predicts that since it was somewhat unusual in our evolution, radarange ovens may be just a bit unsafe. And how would you move from one cave to another if you decided to move, if the stove was big enough to roast a mastodon? How would you fit it and a fan in the moving stone wheel? They've found actually that microwave ovens are more of value than usual ovens about retaining more vitamins with cooking. Since microwaves are possibly unsafe or if you want to be safe from other sources, what I do is wear my AM wokman and listen for the fizz and-it turned out my microwave oven actually had a radiation leak, so vwalah! radar seeking sonar!
This theory of health says something important about what they thought of the sources of radiation like this. The usual people said, "This radiation is harmful!" The science people said it may not be, did the research, and said, "Why doesn't everyone think it's safe?" My question is why do the sicence nerds blame the public for assuming the same theory of health above. A valid question considering how well based the evidence for the theory of health is generally. It's common sense, and may explain why the radiance has been found in some studies to be safe as long as it's not changing fast in frequency. Since electromagnetism abounds in the cosmos, it's worth research to find out about natural electric fields that are in the wild like in the rain forest, where we lived for millions of years. With heat all the time the fields are around, and this theory predicts by this that these fields are constant and like heat, so in our more northern rooms we would perhaps benefit from machines that would jam out the bad heat and add in more healthy heat like for millions of years in our evolution.
DISCLAIMER

The theories and ideas on this site are, to the best of my knowlege, my own theories, uses of existing tech, except where stated, my own inventions, or humor. Individual results may vary. This site is not intended to diagnose cure or prevent any condition nor to be medical advice. I'm not a health care genius I just wanna be my favorite author of yours!


Computer R and G Wiz

To get more out of the web search, a method I use is cut and paste to make my own custom Outlook "site" retaining all the best from sites without the need to read all the sites to find the finds, and I add my comments and conclusions in blue bold. It's a Brain Central Station for all the types of sites of each type, so I'm always up on the info about what I read on any site or think up- So I'm always at the top of the alphanumer-rich and I list each site with A-Z order. This is great for health or solving any other type of problem. Anytime you feel bad about any sort of woe, just look it up in your Cut and Paste A2Z, and meditate about it! If your problem persists, just look it up online and add more till you achieve an infinite life moped. They say the usual computer just has a life expectancy of 7 years so by saving just a tenth of a page you may save your machine. And you can just save the name of the site and a bit of explanation when you type in the URL. "How may I add blue bold?" You may ask. To generally be a wiz at computers without a Phd in Math, I read a computer book such as the Windows for Mummies-and if it may take hours if hours are rich it's like 4000 BC! while the machine is "all wrapped up"!! When I read and learn about the web in these otherwise unoccupied hours of my life, if you don't yet know computers and are reading this, fear no Revenge of The Nerds, in a few years you may know a lot. If you often may not find what you wish in that volume on your shelf just lookup online, cut and paste the results in Outlook, and save it twice. If you save your site to both My Documents and a flopper and you'll always have at least two of all your imported documents. To find these Cut and Paste documents in my list, I list the title of the general area such as health and then CAP A2Z and this will always help you find it fast among the other documents. Why not just learn the computer from an online marm, you may ask? This seems so just a bit, the answer is because the web is just too much pleasure! Lots of us are so active computing for so many ages, like Tut, we have our own spider web site in a museum of glinty solid gold with webs all around us in our sofa! By this bootup and copy and paste method, you have a reliable part of your computing especally for learning the machine. Online and college courses are hours a month, this takes up more of your custom bandwidth web soap opera, Life Online Part Two. This would be a good method for any online college, all would be learned in the bootup hours, this would improve enrollment a lot because they wouldn't be competing with all the web and all its complex flow of cash. How would a millionaire write a yarn? "Dear Ann Landers, - am I 50,000 perslosh yet?"

Why is it when a vest you buy in October is rated at -200 Its not the insulation rating- it's the price?

If you were a cigarette in the scouts and won awards what would you win, A Merit badge?


Labels: Computer R and G, Eye Site, Health Theory Of, Humor

posted by starship orion | 7:30 PM  

 
