It was the my second Asean/tiger final in a row and the atmosphere was awesome! The match along with the kallang waves, vulgarities, exhilaration, sounds of drums, claps, songs & chants and the company of friends and families made the night one to remember. It really was an impromptu outing for me. My first tigercup final was my first time watching local football live (how sad). And it was my dear cousins who brought me along. Well, along with my whole family of course. Sadly the craze didnt grow from there. I was still addicted to the EPL. Crazily in love with Liverpool FC, i shunned the local football scene.
One day i heard that the 2nd leg of the Semi-final would be played last saturday (im talking in past present tense lol). I decided to go as i had no school and was unemployed (a burden to society as my uncle put it). Surprisingly, the tickets were $2 for child. Child as in the maximum age was a poly student. So there i was buying like 8 child tickets. A football game isn't complete with friends and family so i asked along my relatives and brother. The semi-final was not as highly charged as the final but at least it was exciting as singapore got through.

The feeling of seeing 55,000+ (theres the + there cause im sure that a number of people got in illegaly =P) chanting and screaming vulgarities. The feeling sticked so i told myself that i will be going to the final. Got the tickets YAY!.

I bought 3 for me (me, ikin, izdi). 8+1 for eqa&friends (the last one was last minute) ,2 for pek. I bought 1 extra just in case of any last minute "i wanna go lehs but y u never buy for me" people. And lucky lucky lucky carolyn. I thought that she had school the next day and would not like to come so i ddnt ask her at first but in the end i asked her along and she was like YAY (YAY! is a strong word to me). haha.

The day started with me & carol meeting up at holland V. Apparently she ponteng sekolah and was homeless from 7.30 to 4.30. Sad girl. We ate breakfast at BKs and then proceeded to lance's to pass the time. Watched Dude wheres my car? and RV (a lame but then entertaining movie cause theres the LOVELY JOJO inside). So off we were after that. Seated in at 5.50 eventhough the game would start at 8. Well, thanks to me la. Me being a kiasu singaporean wanted to get the best seats and you could only get them around that time. And thanks to my kiasuism, we got good seats =D. The game, like i said earlier, was a very highly charged affair. Mostly due to rivalry and recent politics (thaksin and the fuckin junta), there were much controversies and quarrels to be expected. The game itself was a very start stop game. With tackles and lunges flying about. The thai players were abit soft ( banyak goncang la tu anak) with them diving/falling down at every opportunity. This angered the fans of course and shouts like "eh banyak goncang ah! (you masturbate alot isit!?) ( it is a belief that constant masturbation would give you weak knees), Fuck Thai, buto (ass hole in malay), and something that lance shouted in thai that either meant motherfucker or fuck your mother. Anyways, Singapore scored first and the stadium erupted in cheers of happiness and adrenaline. Noh Alam Shah was at it again =D. But shortly after the 2nd half the thais equallised. Thought it might seem that it was a harsh decision to give for the goal, nothing serious happened so the game was at 1-1 thanks (well, no fucking thanks actually) to Pipat Thonkanya. Singapore, sensing that they must win this tie or else, hammered down wave after wave of attacks but sadly to no end product. This led to the high point of the game when a controversial penalty was awarded to singapore. Well, the controversial claim came from pundits and people who watched the instant replays but WHO GIVES A FUCK!?? Singapore got the penalty man, stop whining.

The thais, not happy with the decision, stormed out of the field like pussies. Apparently they had no sense of pride (no sense of 'save face' as its being called down here) and just walked out of the field casually like it was the end of the game. I could sense a pitch invasion happening and if it were in Brazil, Argentina, Italy, Spain, England, Germany, Holland or any other football crazy countries, it would most definitely happen. But due to Singaporeans' sense of ,self-authority, or lets just say we were more scared of going to jail or getting fined, nothing like that sort happened. Fights did broke out at the thai fan's places obviously but what is a football game without fights???

Well. UNFORTUNATELY. After 14 mins and 19 seconds (i read the newpaper), the thais went back into the game. Rules state that if a team walks out of the game for 15 mins and above, the game would be abandoned and Singapore would most likely win the Cup automatically. Mustafic Fahrudin, a man who i thought was malay, who looked like an Angmoh but in actual fact was serbia-montenegro-an (that was what jasden said) converted the penalty cooly and Singapore lead and won the match by that.

Going out of the stadium was a horror. From up on the stairs, there was a sea of people. And passing through the motorcycle carpark would definitely shorten my lifespan by a few weeks at least. But in the end we got onto the train and headed home with smiles and cute japanese songs in my ears. Band is Hearts Grow. U should listen to it =D.
Sadly, there wont be another game like this for a few years as they want to bring down the Kallang Stadium for good and built a brand new 60000 seater (i heard) stadium. Well im proud to be part of history as one of the 55000 + people to watch the last football match in the legendary kallang stadium.

The last bit was a bit too melodramatic eh? paiseh la. enjoy =D