eek

 The 3GSM conference is coming next week to Barcelona so it will be a very busy week with lots of meetings, visits, events, etc. Among them, Mobile Monday is celebrating its Mobile Monday awards at Telefonica´s Espacio Movistar in Barcelona. Below you have the invitation, I am part of the jury of the awards so I will be there. Don´t miss it, I look forward to see lots of familiar faces around!!!

 

CD

 

Talent, creativity and innovation know no boundaries and MobileMonday selected 24 of the best mobile start-ups from the four corners of the world to present their most innovative product/service at the Global Peer Awards 2007, to be held on February 12th at the Espacio Movistar in Barcelona.

Top-level companies have been through a selection process organized at the local MobileMonday chapter level. Finally, finalists have been chosen from Australia, Belgium, Canada, China, Finland, France, Germany, India, Italy, Japan, Malaysia, Russia, Singapore, Spain, Switzerland, Thailand, Turkey, the UK, the Ukraine, and the US.

You can download the complete list of presenting finalists, program, jury bio's and location details here.

The 3-minute 'elevator pitch'-style presentations will be moderated by Caroline Lewko, from the Wireless Industry Partnership. The live event will award three prizes: Jury Favorite, Audience Favorite and MoMo Community Favorite. The Jury consists of some of the most recognized mobile industry experts and thinkers.

Another award will be given for the Carnival of Mobilists' "Host of the Year". The Mobilists, as they like to call themselves, is a group of top-notch bloggers writing on mobility, who have an enormous impact on the blogging community and have done a lot to bridge, reveal and support the latest in mobile innovations.This half-day event is open to all who register at http://peerawards.mobilemonday.net/ and will be followed by a networking cocktail. Over 600 mobile professionals, press, analysts, and investors have already registered to attend. 