
Complexity, Spirituality, Reinterpretation
Published Monday, April 17, 2006 by Aeh | E-mail this post   Del.icio.us
E-mail this post


Remember me (?)



All personal information that you provide here will be governed by the Privacy Policy of Blogger.com. More...

Human mind evolves over time from less to more complexity. New complexity creates new meaning. Reinterpretation of the past fact is a sure thing for new complexity. From an integral vision, complexity is not other than multiple interlinking of perspectives, nor things, nor processes, nor entities. Human beings started to realize themselves at a level of complexity along the evolutionary path . It's called "self-introspection," which is a quality out of a mental complexity that Kegan called "3rd Order of Mind". As I use an integral math, in spiritual term, 3rd order of mind is 1-p x 1-p x 1-p x 1/p, a 1st-person view of a 1st-person self-preferential principle of a 1st-person impulsive mode of a 1st-person body "stop-mode". At this level, all major religions start to spring up, Christianity, Buddhism, Islam, etc. Human beings, for the first time, know how to be enlightened.

When human beings evolve to a higher level of complexity, everything is reinterpreted, including spirituality. At 3rd order complexity, the ultimate interpretation of spirituality is there are two worlds, illusory and transcendental. To be enlightened is to get out of illusory world and to resolve oneself into THE transcendental world. At 4th Order of mind, the reinterpretation principle could be 1-p x 1-p x 1-p x 1-p x 1/p or, in a spiritual reinterpretation, a 1st-person spiritual process to a 1st-person introspection of a 1st-person preferential formation of a 1st-person impulse of a 1st-person body. A radical new form of interpretation to enlightenment known as "Nonduality." Form and Emptiness are two side of the same coin. No coming, No going.

Towards the leading-edge complexity, 5th order of mind, a reinterpretation of enlightenment start to unfold. With a highly complex mind, 1-p x 1-p x 1-p x 1-p x 1-p x 1/p, a 1st-person integral awareness of 1st-person spiritual process of a 1st-person introspection of a 1st-person preference of a 1st-person impulse of a 1st-person body, enlightenment is everywhere, every occasion, every moment, epistemologically, ontologically. The ultimate meaning of spirit is the Ground of Kosmos, which contains sentient beings and is built out of perspectives.

[1st updated April 28th, 2006
2nd updated April 29th, 2006]
