

I hope Hollywood doesn't screw this up (as usual).

From Production Weekly, via Dark Horizons: Dominic Sena (”Swordfish” & “Gone in Sixty Seconds”) is set to helm “Whiteout,” an Antarctic whodunit adapted from a series of graphic novels by Greg Rucka. Kate Beckinsale is in negotiations to topline the film scheduled to start shooting mid-March in Montreal and Manitoba. Penned by Erich & Jon Hoeber, the ticking-clock “Whiteout” follows U.S. Marshal Carrie Stetko as she uncovers the first murder ever in the Antarctic just as the sun is about to set for six months. She must catch the killer before he leaves the ice or be stuck there with him in the dark for six months.

The description of the book is a bit simplistic in the article. Here's a better description of one of the best graphic novels and "locked-room" scenarios I've ever read, from Greg Rucka himself.

You can't get any further down than the bottom of the world—Antarctica. Cold, desolate, nothing but ice and snow for miles and miles. Carrie Stetko is a U.S. Marshal, and she's made The Ice her home. In its vastness, she has found a place where she can forget her troubled past and feel at peace.... Until someone commits a murder in her jurisdiction and that peace is shattered. The murderer is one of five men scattered across the continent, and he has more reason to hide than just the slaying. Several ice samples were taken from the area around the body, and the depth of the drilling signifies something particular was removed. Enter Lily Sharpe, who wants to know what was so important another man's life had to be taken for it. But are either of the women prepared for the secrets and betrayals at the core of the situation?

I'm not sure about Kate Beckinsale but she might be able to pull it off. She's a definitely bit more of a model type than Carrie Stetko, who looks like this.





You can read the entire first issue of Whiteout here at the Oni Press website (scroll down until you see Frank Miller's killer cover). If you're into spinoffs, be sure not to miss Whiteout: Melt, a sequel by the original creators that finds Carrie chasing down missing nuclear weapons across the deadly ice of Anarctica.

It's also worth noting that Rucka's incredibly complex spy series Queen and Country stars Tara Chace, who made her debut appearance in the pages of Whiteout.
