VISION OF LENIN
On the evening of the 7th of September while in the bath I was shown these visions.

I was shown a vision of a head of a man that I recognised but wasn't sure who he was although I knew he was from the Russian revolution. Then a brown paper bag went on to the head of the man, so that his face could not be seen. And I asked my heavenly father where is this man? He replied 'In the Pentagon'.

MARY FALLIN QUESTIONS PENTAGON OFFICIALS ABOUT DUE PROCESS.




The following day I checked pictures on the internet and the man that I saw was LENIN although he had a bit more beard going up the side of his face.



Lenin, was a Russian revolutionary, Bolshevik leader, communist politician, principal leader of the October Revolution and the first head of the Soviet Union. In 1998, he was named by Time magazine as one of the 100 most influential people of the 20th century. [1]Lenin was involved in universal health care and a lot more.

Russian Revolution (Freedom and Hope) - 1/5



The writings of Lenin include:

"The State and the Revolution (1917) - Lenin exposes his interpretation of Marx and Engels writings, showing the base theory for the October Russian Revolution, and also makes strong opposition to social-democratic tendency.

April Theses (1917) – Lenin claimed in his April Theses that a Socialist Revolution was necessary.
What is to be done? (1903) – This detailed Lenin's vision for a "Vanguard" revolutionary party.

Part 2



Imperialism, the highest stage of Capitalism (1916) – Lenin believed that World War I was a capitalist affair that involved capitalist nations in competition for land and resources, as well as cheap labour."

After the vision of Lenin, I was given a vision of Father Christmas, I saw all the people busy buying Christmas presents and entrenched in consumerism. (Today, I remembered that there is also a shopping centre in the UK called the Pentagon, the shopping centre is in Chatham, Kent near where my mother used to live). The impression that I received was that while people were busy with their minds and hearts elsewhere something was being planned at the Pentagon.

CHRISTMAS IN AMERICA



It was then brought to my memory that there is a lunar eclipse at Christmas on the 31st December 2009. I asked what does this mean and our heavenly father said 'FILM MAKER'. Recently the eclipses have had different names e.g. Rainmaker, Dream Maker and now "Film Maker".

The next day we put the word film into the search engine to see what came up and it was a film called our home. I strongly recommend that every man, woman and child watches this film prior to buying into the consumerism of Christmas.

OUR HOME - THE FILM

"The stakes are high for us and our children. Everyone should take part in the effort, and HOME has been conceived to take a message of mobilization out to every human being. HOME has been made for you : share it! And act for the planet."

http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jqxENMKaeCU&feature

Yann Arthus-Bertrand

HOME official website
http://www.home-2009.com

PPR is proud to support HOME
http://www.ppr.com

HOME is a carbon offset movie
http://www.actioncarbone.org

More information about the Planet
http://www.goodplanet.info


Most people are aware that the Russian revolution brought a lot of bloodshed upon its own people. Be aware, keep your eye on the Pentagon and do not allow earthly reality to take you away from the most important thing of all that is LIFE and the continuation of people living on this planet. We have already informed you that this is the final countdown and that humanity have eleven months to do a U turn and get with the divine plan and with God.

There is no doubt that something is being planned by the Pentagon, let the visions give the message and if our heavenly father gives me anymore information on this I will share it with you and update this post on this blog.






