Sappy love "poetry"

I am an actress, a singer, a dork and a nerd... who happens to write really sappy love poems. I don't know if they are really poems. They are just feelings I pour out on paper. I am always in love... LOVE is something I never get tired of writing about. I guess "Happily Ever After" has always been my biggest dream. Often when I am in a strange place, I think, "Oh what these eyes have seen" and at night I think, "Oh the things I have experienced". I do get to see the best of the world...but beyond the diamonds, the modern castles and the nightlife, I dream of a white picket fence.


Being a shy girl, I don't share my inner thoughts very often. It's easier to hide behind a great script or a sexy song...but every once in a while a handsome angel will lead me out of my shell. I live for those moments. Here are a few romantic rants I thought you might like.


WANTING

You make me feel invincible and still,
I feel naked in your presence.
You already know all my secrets,
even though I haven’t said a word.
This knowing, this ache, this hunger that cannot be satisfied.
I want to hunt you.
Kiss and bite every inch of you,
never allowing you to escape from my fiery reality.
No, for this dream is mine.
You cannot run, nor will you want to,
with my naked body at your side.
Will you love me, or fear me,
in the morning light?
Will I ever be able to forget you,
stop dreaming of you?
Just remember my love,
meet me in the night.
I am always waiting, wanting and wondering about you.



I AM THE NIGHT

In the distance the beasts are howling
The wind carries their chilling song to me
I am the night and the darkness follows me
Take my fire let it burn the fears from your eyes.
For even I fear that which is behind me.
I know not the strength of that which propels me.
Sleep dearest love and I will sit and watch you, breathing like a child.
Only you can see these dark wings and not fear their grasp.




Rescued with a Kiss

Finally my dreams melt into day and I feel your lips on mine
How I wish I could disappear with you in my arms.
Your scent entices me and weakens my iron will into pure lust.
What a day to lay with you
In the silent safety of the light.
This feeling is new to me.
You beckon me from the darkness and have me crawling to seduce you,
dropping to my knees with wanting in my eyes.
To feel your body against mine even for just a moment,
is worth years without you.



Goodnight my dear hearts. May you always be in love!



I had a blast singing at the "Learning to Live" charity. It was held at a beautiful house in Beverly Hills. I decided to go with the more conservative of my outfits and went with the Versace gown and my Japanese Drag Queen coat. aha haa! It was a hit and it matched the decorations perfectly. Neil Bagg, my buddy from Buchwald and Associates came. A lot of my friends made it! Nelson, George 1 and 2, Gary, Charles, Dr. Block, Miles Teves and a bunch of other people I am rudely forgetting due to my busy schedule. Thanks Michael Blum for producing such a fabulous party. And THANK YOU David Bickford my fabulous pianist, for saving my ass. Here's a quick clip to tie you over till I get the video recording....



Thanks Mr. St. G for letting us hang out at your house! It was beautiful.



After a day or so of rest, I had a meeting at the Bona Venture in Downtown LA. A LOT of movies have been filmed there. Lethal Weapon, True Lies, Die Hard...the list goes on. It was a fabulous place. I could live there for a month! They have a bar that rotates 360 degrees around so you can see the whole city in an hour. It's on the 35th floor too. FABULOUS!








Then after the meeting there, I had a party to attend in Newport Beach.




I usually HATE beach parties because I am so shy and modest in a swimsuit. Yes, i know it's hard to believe but it's true. Thank god for long sarongs and rhinestone bikinis! That way no ones notices anything but the cleavage and the shoes. he hee (Funny NOTE: My arms and back are tan from all my Vegas Sun. I get tan really fast, but I rarely show my legs, sooooo I decided to airbrush my legs to match. BAD idea. Now the soles of my feet are dark brown. But, hey at least I match now...as long as no one sees under my feet.) Dork issues? YES! Those photos are on their way too.

I do love Los Angeles, but it SHOULD stay open 24/7. That is my only complaint.


Love and Elevators
