Ten Questions 
Ten Questions... my answers...

What is your biggest passion in life?
I have MANY passions in life. I am very passionate about any kind of suffering in the world and there are many times I wish I were more than just one person. I will say though, that my biggest passion in life right now would have to be dedicating my time and energy to supporting childhood cancer awareness in hopes that someday there will be a cure. I've never seen/met/heard of a child with cancer I wasn't completely amazed by. They are the living, and all too often, dying proof that cancer can happen to anyone... even the most innocent angels and we must work hard to end their suffering.

Define Love
Love cannot be defined in any certain terms. It has no limits or boundaries, it knows no age, religion, race, or gender. It's the smiles, hugs and kisses we give each other daily. It's the look in a mother's eyes the very first time she holds the newborn baby she's waited ten years for. It's being able to give up a night on the town with your friends to stay home and watch a movie with your parents. It's being able to do nothing but sit next to someone and hold their hand and in that simple moment be sharing more than words can say. And it's being able to sit next to a dying person and hold their hand as they take their last breath of air even though it tears your heart to pieces because you know that not being there for them would hurt even more and you love them too much to give up that moment. It's in so many of the experiences and so many of the memories that we share and make each day. Love is just love... that's all... 
Are you optimistic or pessimistic about the future... why?
I would say I'm a little of both. I'm optimistic because I've seen many things change for the better in my lifetime and I have high hopes that some of those things will continue to change for the better. I'm pessimistic though, because I've seen that no matter how much we try and try and try, hate, war, pain and suffering will always exist in the world. And that sucks...
Favorite Quote? Why?
"Anyone can make you laugh or cry but it takes a very special person to make you laugh when your eyes are already filled with tears."
This quote reminds me of my friends and how great a few of them really are. It's the ones who've been there through both the laughter and the tears who I will remember forever.
What do you feel is the single most important quality in a relationship?
Honesty... this was the easiest question and the quickest answer I came up with. You have nothing if you aren't completely honest with one another.
What in your life are you most grateful for?
Now this one is a tough one. I'm grateful for SO many things in my life. Mainly I'm grateful for all the wonderful people in my life. I don't know what I would do without my family and my friends. They are the reason that I'm here today. Their unconditional love and support have gotten my through some tough times and they have made me want to be a better person. I am and will always be ETERNALLY grateful for the gifts they've given me and the never ending love I've received all my life.
When you were little what did you want to be when you grew up?
Lol... I wanted to be A LOT of things when I was little. I wanted to be everything from a princess or an actress to a doctor, lawyer or teacher. I had all those little kid ambitions and I thought that I could literally be ANYTHING I wanted to be.
What do you want to be now?
Now I'm a little more realistic. I want to graduate from college and become a child life specialist working with children who have cancer at St. Judes, Duke, or UK Children's Hospital. I want to be someone that the children can look forward to seeing everyday, someone who will continue to teach them and stimulate them educationally even when they have to spend long amounts of time in the hospital.
I want to get married and start a family and I want to live on or near the beach. I want to be someone that my children can look up to and someone who will be remembered even after my time here is done for being a kind, loving and caring person. But most of all... I want to be happy... 
