.... Can Astrology explain Purpose of Life? ....
If astrology can be termed as science then I have been curious and fascinated by it for I have always wondered if it could provide insights into the meaning of one's existence and purpose of life - more than knowing about the future or prosperity or such stuff. 

Based on how my life has shaped and the occurences in it, I have also wondered if it is influenced in part or whole based on past or previous exitensce or is it purely based on destiny/fate as bestowed/gifted to us.

I guess recently my curiosity was answered to some extent. An astrologer (who a friend consulted on my behalf) given the sudden twists of events in my life made a pretty interesting statement - that "My past was controlling my present and destiny". He wasn't referring to past of this life, but the past of previous existence.

According to him in my past life - I was an unhelpful guy, with selfish motives and desires. A fellow in whose life things came easy, and who never really understood the struggle or value of people and things. 

Based on this he states that in this life my nature and attitude depict kindness and helpful attitude to make amends for my wrongs. My mind is constantly seeks to help based out of selfish desires - the influences of the past, yet I must always strive to be kind and helpful - in the most unselfish manner. Is this why I feel guilty and scared when I have helped or been kind out of selfish desires? Is this why I feel like I have helped wrongly?

He went on to say that the turmoil and twists in my life exist to teach me not to take things for granted. In my past life I got things easy, and this made me arrogant. In this life, God is teaching me to be humble by making me work hard to accomplish my desires and goals. This seems true, for as long as I can recollect - nothing has come easy. I have gotten more than I have desired, but only after a struggle and hardships.

He says that I have to believe in God and that God will test my faith & belief from time to time.

Its interesting as it explains some aspects of my life. Does it provide meaning to my life or the purpose of my life? I dont know yet - but it is insightful. However I am happy and at peace b'cos if God wants me to make amends - I shall go about doing that.


